Excuse me.
Why don't you pronounce your name for me, Nancy?
It's on.
Pronounce, how you pronounce your name?
Oh, Ovedovitz.
Ovedovitz.
Okay, just the way it reads.
Yeah, just the way it reads.
And you briefly, your job here at Yale?
I'm the design manager here now.
I've been here for 25 years, a little more than that.
My job has changed.
enormously since I've been here.
Well, my title has, too.
I started out as a designer, and then got promoted to senior designer, and then became a design manager about ten years ago.
And so this is 2005, so you came here about 1980, I guess.
Was it 25?
Yes.
February, yeah.
And you came from?
I came from, I was working for McGraw-Hill in New York.
I was commuting to New York, working for the Gregg division, which is like
junior college-level textbooks.
So I read in a little description of your duties that you do about 30 or so books a year as a designer.
As a designer.
Yes, although that's getting to be fewer and fewer as I do more administrative stuff and hire freelancers.
But I wouldn't like to not do that at all, because that's my favorite part.
How important is design to a university, Chris?
Well, these days, pretty critical, actually.
I think back when we were... My day.
The first use of a pen, I dropped it on the floor.
Come over here.
Go ahead, I'm sorry.
I think back when I first started here and we were doing all scholarly books, almost all scholarly books,
it was probably much less important.
Obviously, it was necessary just for making things readable, but as for having to compete in the marketplace, that just didn't happen.
There was always an audience for books in a library for our scholarly books.
Most of our books had a minimum sale of
2,500 or 3,000 copies just to libraries.
So we didn't have to worry about what the book jackets looked like.
Or if there were jackets at all.
Exactly.
When I first came here, we did a lot of one-color jackets, and we were lucky to get two colors.
Four colors was like once every few years we would do a four-color book jacket.
I haven't done a one-color jacket in a long time.
And we do very few, even two-color jackets.
Most of them are three or four.
And this is expensive?
Oh, yes.
Oh, yes, much more expensive.
And at what point would you say there was an attitude, either awareness or change, that you had to compete, I guess, that you actually
It seemed like it evolved over years.
Somewhere in there, there was a decision that we had to publish more trade books, as they're called.
I don't know that I can even pinpoint the time.
Do you remember when you were actually mindful?
Talk to me a little bit about some of the books that you recall.
really making this transformation where you really were going out to compete in the trade world.
Maybe if you could just talk about some of the books that come to mind as some of the ones you enjoyed working most with and your thoughts on how they really do influence the marketplace.
We're entering a conversation.
I'm looking for ways to
they really characterize the press, because it is so successful.
It operates in the black, which to me is really fantastic, you know.
And there have to be many elements at work here.
It's got a lot of very hard-working people here, mostly.
I don't know.
My memory is not what it used to be.
The approach that you take when you were at McGraw-Hill, obviously, were you working with multi-colored jackets, right?
Yes, yes.
Well, you know, I was doing, we did the interiors as well as the jackets, and we have multi-colors on the insides of the books.
Really?
Yeah, and I sort of felt, you know, it was aimed at, like, junior college-level students, and I sort of felt like it was
kind of patronizing to the students.
No, what was the name between the college students?
The books, the book designs, yeah.
Really?
Yeah.
Um, and I... Can you describe, if you can, what... Oh, you know, they wanted, like, a lot of color in the book, and, like, little doodads all over the pages, and they... University Press books, they don't remember.
No, no, McGraw-Hill books.
And, you know, I used to think of it as sort of a McDonaldland kind of design, and, um, you know, try to make things, like, ultra-accessible to, um,
college students, you know, and I actually didn't like it very much.
So I was really happy when I came here and I could, you know, design serious books for people who would just read them and didn't have to be enticed with little doodads.
We still don't do a lot of little doodads here, but the jackets certainly have changed a lot.
It's hard for me, you know, it's hard for me to pinpoint a time, because it was such a gradual change, it seemed.
I'd probably have to look at the old catalogs to give you titles.
But was there a point, it must have been throughout the press, where there was a decision, or there was a movement made towards just, you can't do business in the traditional... No, we weren't making any money.
I mean, even in, I remember in like 1982, I think it was somewhere around there.
I don't know why that sticks in my head.
We had a real financial crisis here.
And, you know, to the point of, you know, memos about not using too many paper clips and things like that.
And maybe it was after that that there was more, you know, we were looking more towards
having some books that could compete out there in the marketplace.
It's almost, and of course you probably can't speak to this, but it's almost historically accepted that university presses aren't expected to make any money.
No, except us.
Well, I remember at that point things were very bad and I know the director had asked the university to help us out and they'd said no.
And I think at that point maybe that was when we decided, you know, there was a decision here that we had a
We had a look outside of the scholarly marketplace to remain alive.
So what kind of an attitude do you bring to a book, a manuscript, to perk it up, to make it a... To make it appeal to our general audience?
Yeah, yeah.
And do you subscribe to the suggestion that a cover does entice?
Yes, of course.
We have a sort of chronic problem with editors who want the...
and authors themselves, who want the jacket to sort of very precisely reflect what's inside the book.
And honestly, it's really hard to do, and it's not necessarily sort of graphically interesting.
My gut feeling is that a book jacket that intrigues somebody and makes them pick it up, that book jacket's done its job.
And it doesn't have to be like an exact...
representation of every little thing that's in the book.
How do you do that graphically anyway?
I mean, I wonder how you actually do that, the cover, to really summarize, encapsulate the textual content of the book.
You can't.
Obviously, you can't.
And if you could, it would be a mess.
There would be way too much information, you know, for a book jacket to carry.
So, yeah, so we just try to make it somewhat representative and attractive.
And attractive.
And inviting.
Exactly.
And when you say pick it up, you mean pick it up in a bookstore?
Yes.
Oh, yeah.
Not necessarily pick it up in a library, because when somebody gets to it at the library point, they're going to see the book.
So it's really an invitation to... Even the spine in the library would, an interesting spine would help it in the library, though, I think.
You know.
Just clear and attractive.
Yeah.
So are there any ones in particular that...
Now, you say you do 20 or 30 a year yourself.
There are about 300 books or so that Yale is publishing each year.
Is that right?
I think 200.
Is it 200?
I think so, yeah.
And so you farm out a lot of this work?
Some of it.
Not a lot.
Certainly not the majority of it.
This department does.
Now, do you expect that the designers are going to read the whole book?
Never.
Most of our books are pretty dense.
We do read a few here and there, but most of them are pretty dense.
And so we get a synopsis from the editor and an idea of who the audience is.
Sometimes the authors have ideas about what their jackets should look like, and they're not usually very good at designing them themselves, but sometimes they have good ideas.
Well, my first book, Gentle Madness, which was huge.
It's a four-pound book.
Holt published it.
Wow.
And, you know, I'll not see that again.
I mean, the whole industry has changed where they don't want big books anymore.
When was that?
Yeah.
It was ten years ago.
It was number five.
Yeah.
But it's still in print.
But when I submitted the typescript, I had a specific idea of what I'd spent ten years on this book.
Yes.
What the cover should be.
Uh-huh.
I had Xeroxed an engraving of Dura's Book Fool.
It's from 1493.
It's from the Ship of Fools.
That's now in chief.
And there's this crazy guy, because the book is about bibliomania.
And I just Xeroxed it and put it on top of the typescript.
Uh-huh.
And lo and behold, that became, you know, if you want to see it, you can Google it.
Yeah, I'd love to see it.
It is fabulous.
There's wild kinds of prizes and stuff.
And you just
Go to my website, nicholasbazbaines.com.
Do you want to see?
In fact, the new one is up there.
And then actually, if you look at the first, there were two signatures of photos.
And the very first sig, I had the actual, I told them how I have decided.
For the photos that I use, I pretty much tell them what I want.
They've designed it, of course.
And this new book is coming out.
I virtually designed it for them.
I took the pictures.
I shot all my own pictures.
But, you know, I suppose if you have an idea of what you want as an author, it's not a bad idea to suggest it.
No, no.
But it never surprises me to see, especially this new jacket here, every book it's read.
I had no clue what they were doing.
I mean, I like it, but it doesn't tell you what the book's about in any way.
It's just pretty.
It's different.
It's got a little funny thing with the type, you know, design.
Yeah, yeah.
It's an interesting angle.
Yeah.
So how important is type, you know, I mean, the selection of types?
Oh, I think it's critical.
I think it's, I don't think, you know, obviously your audience is not going to know exactly what typeface you're using or anything, but I think they get a,
There's sort of an underlying message about what year this book is being published.
And while that, you know, might not sound important, I think it is.
I think people, you know, if it's a new book, people want to know it's a new book, and it's, you know, and it's contemporary, and this is not old news.
And it can communicate a lot of different things, you know, a lot of different... I'm sorry.
For this, I'll talk about myself, but my new book, for the first time, I...
I wanted to have a note on the type.
What's the type?
Oh, on the text.
On the type that we used.
Because we used the same type.
And they said the reason that they chose Harvester is the same type for this book as they used for the last one, because everybody thought it was wonderful.
And I said, well, it's wonderful, so why don't we say what it is, if everybody likes it so much.
And it took, like, two weeks.
And there must have been, they were on vacation.
For me to find out, actually, it was Fournier.
Fournier, yeah.
Fournier.
And then I wrote a little thing on it.
Oh, you did?
I did.
Oh, how nice.
Yeah, I did.
And then I ran it by Terry Ballinger at the Book Arts Press, I don't know if you know him, at the University of Virginia.
He used to run it at Columbia before they closed the library school, and then he went down at UVA.
He was very knowledgeable on this stuff.
And so I ran it by him.
But I wrote the note on the type.
And just, you know, one of these transitional types, early types.
It's economical.
It's clean.
Yes.
People like to know.
I like to know that.
Yes, I do, too.
It's like if you're writing a book about books and book culture.
Yes.
It would seem to me that... Yes, I'd love to do that.
We were trying to do that in our texts for a while, but it's just, we use a lot of fonts, and it's kind of hard to keep up with, and just making extra work for the editors.
Are they all digital types now?
These days, these days they are.
But it's a lot of, you know, most old fonts have been turned into digital fonts.
Some of them even got improved.
Now, when you first started in 1980, were you, had they made a conversion?
No, no, no.
So you're still working with traditional fonts?
We were still using, some places were still setting our books in hot metal.
Wow.
You know, books with math in them, particularly.
And then for a little while...
Books were getting set by IBM Selectric.
No kidding?
In some places.
Seriously?
Yeah, and I had type books from all these different type houses, and each house had only, like, you know, five fonts.
It was very limited.
And some places, for some reason, could only set, like, Times Roman with Universe.
For instance, Universe is a sans serif that you would use for, like, titles and stuff.
Um...
You know, they could only combine them in a couple of ways.
Yeah, we didn't start using... God, I guess about the time we got computers here, you know, by then pretty much our typesetters were using.
And this is all stuff that's done here in this building?
No, none.
We don't typeset any of our texts.
Nothing?
No.
That's all.
We use our computers to design the inside of the texts, and we, you know, we send...
specifications and samples to the compositors.
This 1945 book, I get review books, too, so I do review them.
Oh.
And I thought that was just a really dramatically successful jacket, in fact.
Oh, thank you.
And again, what is the picture?
It's a photograph that's trying to express a whole year.
Right, very right.
So how did you pick the photo?
That book was published in England, and they had a book jacket on it.
It had a different title.
And they had a book jacket on it with that photograph.
Oh, so they used the same picture.
And so we liked it, so we bought it, too.
And what was the original title?
We can find out.
It was something long.
Don't look it up.
It was something long, you know.
But you still found that using the same art expressed the idea, even though the title had changed.
Yeah.
Is there any way to assess the success?
Not really.
We do what we can, but obviously they look at sales, but people have to be interested in the subject as well as the jacket to buy the book.
We get feedback from our sales reps and from the buyers who they see.
Yeah.
Periodically, and this is pretty recent that we're getting it very regularly.
The in-house salespeople are sort of forwarding us all the assessments from the outside salespeople.
Do you think that placement in bookstores is relative to how attractive the book is?
Well, yes, absolutely.
I know...
just up the street, you know, at the Yale bookstore.
They, you know, they always have a display.
They put, like, three copies, I think, of the books that they want to display all around the outside of the windows.
And we're thrilled when we get a book in there.
Yeah.
Well, again, going back to my first book, when I can't, I was nobody.
I mean, I didn't know who the head I was.
And my mother, who's now in her 80s, when she was walking down in New York, Fifth Avenue, or wherever.
It was always bookstores.
They had made a poster of my book.
Wow.
And it was in the window just because they loved it.
And she went in and she said, you must give me that poster.
I said, man, what are you talking about?
She said, that's my poster.
I said, what are you talking about?
That's so funny.
Leave that poster exactly where it is.
You're not going to fool around with that.
You know, I mean, you get something like that.
It's a fabulous promotion for your book.
I mean, I actually thank the woman who, in my acknowledgements, has such a striking design.
Oh, that's nice, yes.
I just believe that she just hit a home run on it, you know.
And then she did the Gently Mad one, too.
I did two books with Holden, the one you're looking at.
Uh-huh.
That one you're looking at right there.
Yes, it's right.
That's Raquel Jamarillo, I guess is her name.
Oh, I know her name.
Yeah.
She's wonderful.
I think she's still at Holt, but I haven't done a couple books.
You know, I look at designers' names and the book jackets.
She won an award.
She's won lots of awards, yeah.
My book was just one of those fabulous things where the art and the design... It's interesting to me that you have this attitude on the university press level, and I wonder how many other university presses are as savvy as this one is.
Well, some of them.
Some of them.
I mean, you know, there's the Association of American University Presses, you know, the AAUP.
Every year there's a yearly meeting, and there's a jacket design, and it is fiercely competitive.
In fact, we find it easier to get our work into Print Magazine, which is a national publication of, like, you know, and people in all walks of design send stuff.
We find it
easier to get our work into there than into the AAUP book show.
No kidding.
That's amazing.
Well, the AAUP is also judged almost always just by designers.
And designers who are really into, you know, fine typography and careful design work, you know, a university press is not a bad place for them to work.
Yeah.
The pressures aren't the same as they are in a trade publishing house.
So when you have a typescript comes to you and it's ready, at what point do you start doing the jacket?
I mean, after the thing is edited?
It varies with the kind of book it is.
For our books that are on our trade list, we start designing the jacket sometimes before the manuscript is announced.
That's funny.
Unfortunately, sometimes before we have a definite title, because they go in our catalog, our seasonal catalogs.
We're doing them now for the spring catalog, and there are a couple of books on this list that the manuscripts haven't come in yet.
They did that to my new book.
Really?
When you talk about pressure and getting the book done, the jacket was ready, and there was a catalog entry, and they even had the wrong subtitle on the jacket, because I had
I just had a working subtitle just so I could sell it, you know, from the proposal, but that was never intended to be the actual subtitle, and I changed it.
But they went ahead and put it on the dust jacket.
And even at Barnes & Noble, they're still pre-selling it under the old subtitle.
Fix this, will you?
Well, that's the thing.
They pre-sell.
I mean, they promote things before they're done.
Yeah, our catalog ends up, we end up with jackets in the catalog that change.
And we don't consider it the most tragic thing, either.
I mean, it's... Oh, it doesn't hurt, I don't think.
I don't think so, either.
I mean, you know, it's good for a bookseller to have something visual.
And sometimes we get feedback on those, you know, after the fact.
But right now, most of it, you know, it's before the fact.
So for our trade books, we, you know, their jackets are designed at a very early stage.
And for our...
got more scholarly books.
Jackets are designed at the very last minute, unfortunately.
You're just playing with type on the money.
Not necessarily, but we're just very busy.
We've always got a lot of work.
Theoretically, there's a month between when the jacket design is due and when it's got to go to the printer.
Yeah, but a month is just not that long a time.
Especially when you have copy that has to be
Yeah.
Well, theoretically, we've got the jacket copy at that point.
And we've got the, you know, information from anything the author might want to tell us.
And sometimes authors provide pieces of art, you know, of their own that they'd like used on the jacket.
And if we think we can make it work, we'll, you know, we accommodate them on our scholarly books more so.
Do you still do any books without jackets, out of curiosity, or is it...?
Theoretically, but in reality,
You know, a few old series books.
And how do you choose which books are graced with end sheets?
I don't know.
Theoretically, none of them are graced with end sheets anymore, unfortunately.
My first two books had end sheets.
I really miss them.
They're wonderful.
I think they add a lot to the book.
This gives it a sense of class.
Yeah.
Like they said, it's 50 cents more per book.
I mean, I don't know if that's what they told me.
Well, you know, the way they figure out what something costs per book is a little mysterious to me, because it gets magnified somehow.
They don't really cost 50 cents per book.
That's right.
But they add, like, 50 cents to the price of the book.
I would vote for it to be worth it most of the time.
But it's not up to me, unfortunately.
So, yeah, none of them, but occasionally some of them do get pitchy.
But they're... You know, sometimes it's something as simple as we have, like, a big subsidy for some particular title, and we want to produce it as best, you know, as nicely as we can.
So...
Do you sit in the editorial meetings and the marketing meetings?
No editorial meetings.
Only marketing meetings, only a few.
They have something called the trade launch, where they discuss all the trade books for a particular season.
And it's primarily a marketing meeting.
And I sit in on those, and I try to get the designers to sit in for the books they'll be working on.
I sort of assign them, like, ahead of time, before we have a manuscript, before we've even heard of the book.
Sometimes I give them some to babysit.
So do you think that it is kind of interesting that the designer had gets a title, of course, and gets maybe a paragraph as to what the book's about?
A few paragraphs, yeah.
And then you just say, use your imagination, right?
Just see what you can.
Well, we go to these meetings, you know, the editors go up and talk about what the book is about and who is going to buy this and who it should appeal to, and then the marketing people all kind of chime in and the director.
So we're really, you know, we're getting a feel for how the book, you know, how it should look.
And how do you prepare to be a designer for a book?
I mean, what kind of skills do you find the most that you look for in people who
Tell me something.
Well, I think, you know, well, obviously imagination, and an ability to sort of, you know, conceptualize is good.
You have to think good in terms of scale and size, too.
Yes.
Proportions are critical.
It looks terrible, as a postage stamp, the first one, General Madness.
But if you see it, there's a... Well, almost any book jacket looks terrible that size.
It's that tiny.
If you go to Amazon, you know, you can click on them, which is where I usually go to look at comparable book jackets.
You can click on them, and you get a bigger image.
Yeah.
Should you want to get sued, yeah.
No, I write a week.
I write book reviews, and I send art, you know.
Oh, all right, yeah.
And I used to actually physically have to send it.
Now I just send JPEGs, you know.
Oh, oh, okay, yeah.
Everybody's happy.
The publisher's happy because their book's getting, you know, the pictures being, especially children's books.
I review a lot of children's books.
So I really, you know, I didn't have a specific agenda of things to go over.
I just really want to touch all bases on the building and kind of get
Okay.
Some sense of, you know, what everybody contributes to the... I wondered if you had a, you know, really good list of, like, people who've been here a long time.
Well, I've talked to a few people.
You have?
Okay.
Jonathan Spence today at Michael Lemon.
This should be interesting.
Okay.
He's a historian, and he's a lot of governance here.
Yes.
And really one of the world's great historians.
He originally had this office.
No kidding.
And I don't know why.
It must have been before the press was here.
You think?
Yeah.
Because there's a little piece of paper in the corner that I've left over there somewhere saying this, you know, or this was Jonathan Spence's office.
No wonder why.
Or something like that.
Yeah.
Well, I know Sarah Clark had it for a while when, before the addition was put on the building.
This was a small office, you know, this was kind of dormant here.
So, you know, it had like little, you know...
bent ceilings, and Sarah Clarke worked in here, and... For publicity promotion?
Yeah.
I know Sarah going way back.
Oh, really?
All my days as a book review editor.
Oh, of course, yeah.
And I still review a ton of leo books, in fact, which is... I know Sarah going way back, too, since I've been working.
Yeah.
So I think the note was from his days here, but the press, you know, wasn't always in this building.
We came here from, they were over on New York Street.
So he must have had an office here before it was in the Yale Press.
Yeah, he's been here since the 60s.
He's been here for a long time.
Really?
Yeah.
Yeah, I've got a bio on him.
Do you work with the art books, too, or is that the...?
No.
No, we used to, but now just Patricia and Mary.
So that's done by a whole different division, even the design?
Yes.
They freelance out.
Do they?
Almost all of their books.
One or two titles that...
that they don't have any money in and they ask us to do, but very little.
Yeah, those books, I have the city of Yale, our books are, there's nobody that compares.
They're gorgeous, I think, yeah.
Plus the content is just, it's not just pretty pictures, the scholarship is fabulous.
Yeah, they're great.
And they're involved with all these museums and these exhibitions.
Yeah.
You know, once upon a time we used to do them, but I mean, with the workload here and the kind of schedules they have,
like having to prepare things for museum openings.
And we just can't drop everything else to check proofs, for instance.
And that's what they do.
So any particular books that stand out in your mind as favorites or ones that you take particular pleasure in having, hard in producing?
Oh, let's see.
Maybe the Likens book.
That was huge.
Have you ever seen the Likens book?
Yeah.
Right now I'm going to take a picture of you with it.
Oh, here.
Pictures, too?
Nobody told me.
Not to worry.
This is a... I just... I have my toy with my digital camera these days, so it's... Well, I mean, these, you know, these really oversized books are kind of... They take a lot of time and a lot of effort on many people's part of it.
So those are the ones that stick out in my mind, actually, the ones that are physically big, ridiculously enough.
Well, that's beautiful.
When was that published?
Um, maybe five years ago.
That's inscribed.
This is my signed copy.
Inscribed?
Uh, 2001.
Oh, just hold it like that.
Does it have it like that?
Okay.
Yeah.
Actually, one more where you can be looking at me.
I can look at your, okay.
Sorry.
Oh, that's nice.
That's a lovely picture.
Thank you.
See, look, I kind of coordinate with this jacket, don't I?
Yeah.
See this?
I mean, I thought I'd never go over from film to digital cameras, but you can come right in and see the pictures.
Yeah, you have fun.
It's amazing.
I have yet to use a digital camera, but... That's a nice picture.
How about anything else?
How about another one?
There are so many from over the years, and I don't keep them all because they're, um, they're, you know, there's so many.
Um, well, the Encyclopedia of New England, of course, but... Which I just received as a review of what they'll be doing with this.
Oh, you did, really?
I realized that.
I loved it.
The clams, I mean, what a great idea.
Yeah, I was ready to have them.
I'm my freelancer.
Clams, right?
Somebody must love clams.
Um...
We went through a lot of iterations of that book jacket before we came up with something.
This is very old.
What else?
This was a favorite book, just because it was fun to work on.
Doug Ray's city book.
He keeps it here.
And he's very involved in the... He's very involved with... He actually had a position in the city government for a few years.
And he's... I think he's written a new book since then.
He's very involved with urban design and all that stuff.
And... Yeah.
You know, the politics of it and everything, too.
So it's... Excellent.
Oh, good.
Would you like me to give you any other names of people to talk to?
Or, I mean, people I know who've been here a long time?
Yep, absolutely.
When I talked to Janice, originally, she sort of, and she hasn't been here that long, but she doesn't really, you know, she doesn't really know.
But, you know, I know Deb Bozzi over in the... Deb?
Deb, B-O-Z-Z-I.
B-O-Z-Z-I.
She came here a few months before me.
She's in the marketing department.
What does she do?
Do you have a card, by the way, that I can... I don't really.
If I can touch with you again.
I don't really.
Just give me an email address.
That'll be good.
Okay, it's nancy.ovendovitz.
It's all lowercase, actually.
O-V-E-D-O.
V-I-T-Z.
At Yale.edu.
What kinds are helpful?
I like them.
But it's pre-email, right?
Yeah, and it's what Paul Rand designed many years ago, and I've actually been meaning to
meaning to do something a little different for us now that he's gone.
I don't have a fit if I mess with him.
So Deb and marketing.
And there was a man named Dow Kling who worked in our business office.
He had like John Rollins' job.
Dow, D-O-W.
Dow?
K-L-I-N-G.
And I'm sorry, I don't know how to get a hold of him.
That's everything.
Where did he work?
He was in the business office.
He had John Rollins' job.
He was our business manager.
Did Janice tell you Sally Harris?
Because she would be a great one to talk to.
Very articulate.
She was the senior designer here when I came here.
And she was here for 30 years.
She lives in Vermont.
I can give you her phone number or her email, actually.
We email.
It's a great way to stay in touch with people.
Is there something that characterizes Yale design or is there something that says this is a Yale book?
It's funny you should ask that.
I've never thought so.
And certainly we have never tried to, you know, make them look as if they all belonged here.
You know, we do such a variety of books.
It just didn't seem appropriate for us.
But we try to make them all look good.
We try to make them all well-designed and easy to read.
But other than that, I would have to say no in terms of the book.
There is a university printer, though, who just this past week sent me his proposed guidelines for Yale design, which he mainly intends to be up for brochures and other sort of ephemera that the university publishes, will not apply to jackets.
But, you know, I think maybe in our other printed pieces that we will, uh... So is there a particular type that you think is favored?
By my department?
Yeah.
There are a few.
There are a few fonts we all love.
Like, for instance?
Um... The Sands.
Mm-hmm.
The Sans.
Uh... S-A-N-S.
No D.
Um...
Uh, Galliard.
G-A-L-L-I-A-R-D.
Um, Torino has certainly been a big, T-O-R, T-O-R-I-N-O, has been a big, um, sort of display font.
You don't use it for a text.
Um, Futura as well, F-U-T-U-R-A, which is an old sans-serif font. You know what a sans-serif is?
And who makes those choices, those decisions?
The designers.
Again, the freelancers that you send out to?
Well, we have a staff here.
There's five of us here.
So you have a staff of five people?
Well, five here and me.
We do most of the designs here.
And then the jackets, the other things you send out?
Not necessarily.
We do most of the jackets here, too.
So you said you free— We freelance out a small proportion.
A small proportion, okay.
Yes, small.
And so what kind of a book would you normally form out?
One that I don't want to touch with a ten-foot pole.
So we won't identify what books those are?
Well, it would be sometimes a book that's especially difficult and we know is going to be really time-consuming.
We might freelance out the text.
Sometimes I work, well, for instance, on that Encyclopedia of New England jacket, you know, I will do a certain number of designs.
And then I just, I can't look at it anymore.
And then I'll send it out to somebody else.
So let's just start, I use that as a case study.
So what were some of the possibilities for that encyclopedia of New England that you liked but didn't, that you, that... Yeah, I think I probably threw them all out.
I had a pile of them.
Well, you know, I get input before I even start designing, especially on something like that, that everybody's sort of nervous about, and it's a big book for us.
So some of the ideas.
Let's see.
There was white picket fences.
I was interested.
There were weather vanes.
Oh, nice.
Okay.
All saying New England, right?
Yeah.
There was, you know, shutters, green shutters on a white house.
There was trees.
trees in full colors.
I just like to say a full-age tree.
So it's interesting, you go from artifactual to natural, so that something was human-made or a natural scene.
Yes, yes.
Because any of them can evoke New England, really.
Sure.
There was a red barn.
There was a whole scene of a New England village, like a Grandma Moses painting.
And everybody was pretty happy with that for a while.
The freelancer also went through a number of iterations of this.
This was a more painful jacket than most.
There was, um, I had a lobster.
I had a lobster on one.
So the point is to have something that evokes New England, but it's not a cliché, I guess, as well?
Well, yes, you'd hope for that, yeah.
Yes.
That's why I think the clams are great.
I think so, too.
Because it's just who expects to see a bush of clams or whatever on the check, you know?
You expect to see a covered bridge or a... Right, a covered bridge.
That was another idea, yeah.
And all are beautiful to the shore, but not especially new.
Right, and kind of cliched, yeah.
Yeah, I hate to use that word, but, you know, when you think of the covered bridge and the foliage and the seashore or whatever, but the clams are great.
Did you get a consensus on that?
Immediate.
Is there a eureka moment where you say that's it?
Pretty much.
Well, the freelancer sent him.
I printed him out.
He had a few different ones.
And I pulled out the clams and I said, this is great.
And I showed it to the group.
There's a group who approves the jackets.
And everybody loved the clams almost immediately.
Interesting, huh?
And here it is, because it is the latest in a series of very successful Yale books, these encyclopedias.
Encyclopedias, yeah.
Which have taken off in their own way, the New York one.
Yeah.
And a number of them are just fabulous books.
Well, thanks.
I love them.
I have them all.
Me too.
I was so fascinated reading that New England encyclopedia.
I was checking proofs.
I just kept getting waylaid by the text.
Yeah, good stuff.
Where are you from?
Albany, New York.
Ah, you're a New York lady.
Yeah.
And you?
Where are you from?
Oh, I'm from Massachusetts.
I've lived most of my life, except for, you know, periods of school.
Yeah.
And worked up there for newspapers.
I've been writing books for 15 years now, and wishing I'd started it earlier.
Really?
Yeah.
It's just been great.
Oh, that's nice.
And able to... Do you have, like, an amount of time every day that you spend writing, or...?
What I'm writing, I'm writing all the time.
Really?
Yeah.
I'm between books, like this Yale thing.